lesson_2_reflection_prompts


What happens when you initialize a repository? Why do you need to do it?

initializing a git repository creates a local repository within that directory and add all existing files within it with .git hidden folder in it contains history of all commits 
we will run the command if we have to start from scratch.


How is the staging area different from the working directory and the repository? What value do you think it offers?

according to what i read earlier staging area is a buffer between local working directory and git repository
staging area is where we can commit and review our files before actually pushing it to server
staging area offers us a space to track files that we wanna push in repository


How can you use the staging area to make sure you have one commit per logical change?

we can use git diff command which will will compare files in working directory with the staging area
git diff --staged will be used to compare the staging area with the latest commit of the git repository
from this command we will know that what are the changes in remote repo wrt  staging area before commit 


What are some situations when branches would be helpful in keeping your history organized? How would branches help?

branches helps in creating new modules by taking existing ones
viz once we create a project then after we want to revise versions of that projects 
and that version contains 2 updates. one for front end developer and another for backend developer
so we'll create two branches for two updates and at last we'll merge them to master and revise our version


How do the diagrams help you visualize the branch structure?

diagrams helps us to track the latest branch or branches in which work is going on 
the node in diagrams represent commits made by each branch and whenever a branch is merged two nodes are combined to one
and whenever any user created a new branch from the existing one so in this way diagrams help us to realize branch structure 
without having to look at particular branch




What is the result of merging two branches together? Why do we represent it in the diagram the way we do?

the result contain the codes of  both the branches when we're using git merge <branch_name> it will merge the branch specified in the command with the current branch . the code of the merged branch will be synced in the current branch 
the diagrams help us to visualize the branch structure the graph in which node repsent a commit of a branch whenever a new branch is created from existing one
or merged into the existing one then it shows the two paths coming out of a node which help us to determine which branch is parent of the current branch and it 
also help us to compare the code of parent branch 



